Nice job on completing Lesson 2.
This lesson concludes our discussion of using relational databases with Java.
Let's recap what we have learned so far.
First, you did some basic CRUD operations using JPA.
Then you learned about the entity lifecycle.
Next, you flexed your brain muscles by writing some JPQL queries.
Then, you used Spring Data JPA to reduce boilerplate code,
and finally, you wrote tests using Spring Boot and H2.
JDBC, JPA, and Spring Data JPA each add a layer of abstraction on top of each other.
It is important to understand the fundamentals of
database access to effectively use the abstractions on top of it.
Keep in mind that JPA is not a silver bullet for every database problem,
and there are polarizing opinions for and against using an object relational framework.
As with every decision in software engineering, there are trade-offs.
As an engineer, it's up to you to consider
your circumstances and see if JPA would work for you.
In the next lesson,
we'll begin our discussion of non-relational databases.
No tables, no schema.
Sound interesting?
See you in the next lesson.